---
layout: post
title: "Minds That Speak, Hearts That Listen"
author: "Sb Fuller"
tags: [NLP, spacy, Cardiology, Neuroscience]
image: tn_02.png
---

Research campuses experience departmental isolation. Unfortunately, many research breakthroughs come about through collaboration and interdepartmental discourse, which is largely hampered by the separation of different disciplines.

Interdepartmental discourse can happen in public through publications and conferences, but most discourse occurs in private and in less polished public friendly formats. A lot of this private correspondance happens through private institutional channels and therefore could be useful to the greater research institute at large for better understanding of inderdepartmental research.

Better auto-categorization of passive interdepartmental discourse could accelerate the occurance of collaborative breakthroughs most important to research and the development of knowledge.

Furthermore, many researchers determine the key words for their own research but often have blind spots about the applicability of their work to other disciplines. Better auto-categorization could give us clues about intersecting interest and could aid in the encouragement of better environments of collaboration.

This investigation here asks, can a community text bank like reddit be used to create a model for differentiating disciplines from each other? Can this investigation reveal key words that exist at the overlap and extremities of these disciplines?

Subreddits, as initial sources of community language, prove to be exceptionally strong source datasets for creating models that accurately predict and classify research community discourse. These models, in combination with others built from internal institutional source text could be used to auto-categorize internal correspondance.

Misclassification seem to occur because post content has nothing to do with either neuroscience or cardiology (e.g. "hello"), because a strong word of one discipline outweighs a weaker word from another (e.g. "blood" is stronger than "mri"), or because the only keywords a post contains are words that are heavily used by both communities (e.g. "stroke", "research", etc.) It is in these middle confusion areas where the greatest potential for future classification analyis or future departmental intersectionality perhaps may be found.

Check out the interactive plot here:
[https://sbfullerstudio.github.io/Minds_That_Speak_Hearts_That_Listen/Subreddit-Visualization.html](https://sbfullerstudio.github.io/Minds_That_Speak_Hearts_That_Listen/Subreddit-Visualization.html){:target="_blank"}


Please feel free to find more information and code behind the project on GitHub:
[https://github.com/sbfullerstudio/Minds_That_Speak_Hearts_That_Listen](https://github.com/sbfullerstudio/Minds_That_Speak_Hearts_That_Listen){:target="_blank"}

